chore: add local-npm tool (#706)
liferay/liferay-frontend-projects: support/packages/local-npm/README.md

# @liferay/local-npm

`@liferay/local-npm` is a private package internal to this monorepo that
provides a CLI tool to leverage local npm repos (like 
[verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/)) to publish local versions of development
packages to be able to test them before the public release is made.

> 

Author: :thinking: It doesn't setup verdaccio, but uses it...

Maybe:

> `@liferay/local-npm` [...] provides a CLI tool to be able to use local npm repos (like 
> [verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/)) to publish local versions of development
> packages so that they can be tested before the public release is made.

:thinking:

> 

Reviewer: Yeah thats a good change. I hadn't gotten to the "how to use" part yet, so I was sort of guessing that it started it for you lol

## Installation

Simply run `yarn link` inside the project's folder to make the `local-npm` CLI
executable available in your system.

> 👀 Note that we don't publish versions of this package to the public npm

> > registry, so the only way to install it is to `yarn link` it.

Author: Nope, you can link anything you want.

The only problem that can arise if you use a non-published package as a dependency of a project is that every `yarn install` you run will fail (even if you have linked it prior to that install). That, obviously, blocks you unless you remove the offending package from `package.json` to be able to install the other dependencies first, then link what you need.

But in this case, we are not affected by that because we don't put this package as a dependency of anything. We just run `yarn link` to make the tool available in the OS's PATH, so that we can run it from the CLI. Think of it as a local `npm install -g`...

the main con the need to redeploy a new version each time you modify any
package, making live development & testing impossible.

For cases where such speed is needed, you may resort to `yarn link` but beware
that you must now very well what you are doing because `yarn link` may 
completely break node's resolution algorithm as it diverts resolution of
dependencies of linked packages to their own folder locations, which usually
leads to unpredictable results.

You've been warned.

### How to use it

The `local-npm` has three commands, of which you will normally use two:

1. `install`: this works like `yarn install` but it makes sure that the package
   is re-downloaded from the repo and written again to your `node_modules`
   folder. On the contrary, `yarn` doesn't do this unless you change the
   dependency version number or remove `yarn.lock` and `node_modules`.
2. `publish`: this is like `npm publish` but it makes sure you are publishing to
   your local repo only and overwrites any published package with the same name
   and version.
3. `registry`: this has two subcommands for querying (`get`) the active
   repository, or setting (`set`) it to `local` or `public`.

> Usually you will always have your `npm` and `yarn` repos pointing to your local
> repo. This is because Verdaccio acts as a proxy of the real public repo so, if
> you request anything it doesn't have, it will download it, cache it and serve
> it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually you will always have `npm`/`yarn` pointing to your local
registry. This is because Verdaccio acts as a proxy of the public registry so, if
you request anything it doesn't have, it will download it, cache it and serve
it.
```

> This has the benefit that you don't need to switch between local and public
> repos whenever you use third party packages and, also, that you will have a
> local mirror of the public `npm` repo which will let you develop even when
> offline (this is not a wanted feature of the setup, but a nice side effect).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This has the benefit that you don't need to switch between local and public
registries whenever you use third party packages and you will have a
local mirror of the public `npm` registry which will let you develop even when
offline (this is not a wanted feature of the setup, but a nice side effect).
```

> The only moments when you need to switch to using the public repos are:
> 
> 1. If you are going to update a `yarn.lock` file that you will then commit to a
>    GitHub repo.
> 2. If you want to make sure that a public release has gone well and thus you
>    need the possibility that your local repo serves packages that are not really
>    available to the public.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only moments when you need to switch back to using the public registry are:

1. If you are going to update a `yarn.lock` file that you will commit to upstream.
2. If you want to make sure that a public release has worked.
```

#### Case 1

> Case 1 will usually happen at the end of a pull request preparation. Whenever we
> change deps in `liferay-frontend-projects`, we must run `yarn install` so that
> `yarn.lock` is updated and we can commit the modified version.
> 
> However, `yarn.lock` files hold information about the repo from where the
> packages are downloaded so, if you run `yarn install` when your machine is
> pointing to your local repo, the `yarn.lock` files will have references to
> `localhost` instead of `registry.npmjs.org`, and those will fail in other
> machines.
> 
> For that reason, the recommended action to take when you finish preparing your
> pull request are:
> 
> 1. Run `git checkout yarn.lock` to restore it to `master`'s state
> 2. Run `local-npm registry set public` to point `npm` and `yarn` to the public
>    repo.
> 3. Run `yarn install` to update `yarn.lock`
> 4. Run `local-npm registry set local` to restore your repos back again to use
>    your local Verdaccio.
> 
> In the event that you forget to follow these steps or commit a `yarn.lock` file
> with references to `localhost` there's no need for drama (though you can make
> drama of it if you like; it's OK) because our CI build will catch the error and
> tell you that your commited `yarn.lock` is incorrect.
> 
> In that case, simply fix it, force push the `yarn.lock` commit, and continue
> with you beautiful life.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Case 1 will usually happen at the end of a pull request preparation. Whenever we
change dependencies in `liferay-frontend-projects`, we must run `yarn install` so that
`yarn.lock` is updated and we can commit the modified version.

However, `yarn.lock` files hold information about the registry from where the
packages are downloaded. If you run `yarn install` when your machine is
pointing to your local registry, the `yarn.lock` files will have references to
`localhost` instead of `registry.npmjs.org`, and those will fail in other
machines.

For that reason, the recommended action to take when you finish preparing your
pull request are:

1. Run `git checkout yarn.lock` to restore it to `master`'s state
2. Run `local-npm registry set public` to point `npm` and `yarn` to the public
   repo.
3. Run `yarn install` to update `yarn.lock`
4. Run `local-npm registry set local` to restore your repos back again to use
   your local registry.

In the event that you forget to follow these steps or commit a `yarn.lock` file
with references to `localhost` there's no need for drama (though you can make
drama of it if you like; it's OK) because our CI build will catch the error and
tell you that your commited `yarn.lock` is incorrect.

In that case, simply fix it, force push the `yarn.lock` commit, and continue
with you beautiful life.
```

#### Case 2

Case 2 would arise after merging the PR and releasing your work to the public.
In that moment, if you want to make sure that everything is correct and people

> outside won't have any problem, you may point to the `public` repo and do 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
outside won't have any problem, you may point to the `public` registry and do 
```

whatever tests you need.

This is more of a QA thing than something you do during development but because
sometimes you need to make sure that you've released the correct thing, it is
documented here.

Remember to point to `local` repo again once you are finished!

## Example

Perico is a developer that is planning to fix something in the
[portal-base](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-frontend-projects/tree/f6a283e2e13123d7cba4384f409ff74b0067d009/projects/js-toolkit/packages/portal-base)
project.

This project is a dependency of
[target-platforms](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-frontend-projects/tree/f6a283e2e13123d7cba4384f409ff74b0067d009/target-platforms/packages)
which are usually a dependency of projects generated with the JS Toolkit.

Perico has two options:

> 1. Invoke `yarn link` on every test project he generates to see how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use `yarn link` on every test project he generates to see how
```

this:

1. Fix `portal-base` 
2. Run `local-npm publish` inside `portal-base`, which pushes a new version of
   that package to the local npm repo.
3. Run `liferay new test-project` to generate a test project that will use
   `portal-base` to build.
4. Run `yarn install` in `test-project`, which will download the package
   published in step 2 from the local repo (Perico could check this by looking
   at the `yarn.lock` file, for example, or by looking for his change inside
   `node_modules`).
5. Build `test-project` and see if the issue was fixed.

If it ain't fixed, Perico would just need to:

1. Modify `portal-base`
2. Run `local-npm publish` inside `portal-base`, which pushes a new version of
   that package to the local npm repo.
3. Run `local-npm install portal-base` in `test-project`, which will redownload
   the package.
4. Build `test-project` and see if the issue was fixed.

And repeat this 4 steps over and over until everything is correct. Note that
Perico could even iterate this cycle to add `console.log` traces or any other
diagnostic code and see it work in the test project.

Once everything is fixed, Perico prepares the PR, and sends it to GH.

> 

Reviewer: We can delete this?

Maybe add an ending section about feedback, issues, etc
